Node management - Refresh (#4849)
EnterpriseDB/docs: product_docs/docs/pgd/5/node_management/connections_dsns_and_ssl.mdx

---
title: Connection DSNs and SSL (TLS)
---

> The DSN of a node is simply a `libpq` connection string, since nodes connect

Author: ```suggestion
The DSN of a node is a [`libpq`]( https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNECT-SSLMODE) connection string, since nodes connect
```

authority and that the host name or address used in the connection matches the
contents of the certificate. In the case of a name, this can match a Subject
Alternative Name or, if there are no such names in the certificate, the
Subject's Common Name (CN) field.
Postgres doesn't currently support subject alternative names for IP
addresses, so if the connection is made by address rather than name, it must
match the CN field.

The CN of the client certificate must be the name of the user making the
PGD connection.
This is usually the user postgres. Each node requires matching
lines permitting the connection in the `pg_hba.conf` file. For example:

```ini
hostssl all         postgres 10.1.2.3/24 cert
hostssl replication postgres 10.1.2.3/24 cert
```

Another setup might be to use `SCRAM-SHA-256` passwords instead of client
certificates and not verify the server identity as long as
the certificate is properly signed. Here the DSN parameters might be:

```ini
sslmode=verify-ca sslrootcert=root.crt
```

The corresponding `pg_hba.conf` lines are:

```ini
hostssl all         postgres 10.1.2.3/24 scram-sha-256
hostssl replication postgres 10.1.2.3/24 scram-sha-256
```

> In such a scenario, the postgres user needs a `.pgpass` file

Author: ```suggestion
In such a scenario, the postgres user needs a [`.pgpass`](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-pgpass.html) file
```
